**NoSQL Database Management Systems and Models**

NoSQL stands for Not Only SQL, this is a databases that go beyond the
traditional tabular structure of relational databases. which means a
collection of databases that separate from the existing tabular
structure found in relational databases. These databases have been
created for a variety of requirements. For example, MongoDB and
Couchbase is a document database that stores data in its own document
format. Cassandra and Apache HBase are a finely tuned heat storage
database that allows you to retrieve data from a wide range of columns.
Redis and MemcachedDB serve as key value repositories and each key
connects to a unique hash table. Finally, Neo4j, a graph database,
adopts a graph structure that focuses on semantic relationship-based
queries. In terms of flexibility and performance, NoSQL databases are
ideal for a variety of data models, high availability,
cost-effectiveness, and large capacity structured and unstructured data
processing.

![A blue pie chart with white text Description automatically
generated](vertopal_b0e99f7fa58e4bd39805bdb8ac17eaf5/media/image1.png){width="4.9263156167979005in"
height="1.6549004811898513in"}

**Data Lakehouse**

The data lake house combines the best benefits between data lake with
the data warehouse. Data Lake House means you can grow with more data.
It\'s also cost friendly because it uses affordable storage solutions.
This setting is affordable for both raw and organized data. Companies
can also gain real time insights from their data. While tools like Delta
Lake help store this data effectively, platforms like Databricks make
data operations smoother. Another advantage is ensuring data quality and
safety. Data lake house provides a simple, affordable, and efficient way
for businesses to process and analyze data. ![A diagram of data storage
Description automatically
generated](vertopal_b0e99f7fa58e4bd39805bdb8ac17eaf5/media/image2.png){width="4.347368766404199in"
height="2.050007655293088in"}

-   <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/a-comparison-of-nosql-database-management-systems-and-models>

-   [https](https)[://www.databricks.com/glossary/data-lakehouse](https://www.databricks.com/glossary/data-lakehouse)
